---
author: Tom
comments: true
date: 2012-12-21 09:03:43+00:00
excerpt: Has it been a bad year for albums? Or have there been some gems that have
  slipped under my radar?
layout: post
slug: top-10-albums-of-2012
title: Top 10 Albums of 2012
wordpress_id: 1437
band:
- Alt J
- Efterklang
- Godspeed You! Black Emperor
- Metric
- Meursault
- Passion Pit
- Shearwater
- The Magnetic Fields
- The Twilight Sad
- Two Door Cinema Club
categories:
- annual-lists
tags: 
- Alt J
- Efterklang
- Godspeed You! Black Emperor
- Metric
- Meursault
- Passion Pit
- Shearwater
- The Magnetic Fields
- The Twilight Sad
- Two Door Cinema Club
---

Will this list be a marker of a Classic Year in the future? I'm not sure it will. All the records featured here are really, really good albums, and there's not one of them I wouldn't defend to the hilt, and these are undoubtedly the ten best albums I've heard this year. _However_, when it comes to the top ten of the decade I'm not sure many of these will feature.

Whether my newfound love of 7"s has distracted my attention from albums proper, I don't know (although I have amassed a hefty pile of LPs over the last 12 months), but choosing the top 10 LPs of this year has been tough. The top spots were secure from the beginning, but this year filling-in the lower orders has been a decidedly tricky operation. The trouble stems from the uniformity of quality on display this year. The top two stand head-and-shoulders above the rest of the pack, but all the others are almost on a level.  Deciding on an order for three through to ten involved, in reality, deciding on an order for slots three through to about twenty, with many albums in the running but few that really stood out as special.

Has it been a bad year for albums? Or have there been some gems that have slipped under my radar (there's always one or two really good records that I miss completely and then find out about months later)?

Either way, here's the best of the LPs I've heard this year.
